The following are terms of a legal agreement between you and Visual Dynamics Software Ltd.

By accessing, browsing and/or using this open source project, collectively named "jControl", you acknowledge 
that you have read, understood, and agreed to be bound by these terms and to comply with all applicable laws 
and regulations. If you do not agree to these terms, do not use any materials published in this project.

Visual Dynamics Software Ltd. may at any time revise these terms by updating this document. By using materials 
published in jControl project, you agree to be bound by any such revisions and should therefore periodically 
read this document to determine the current terms to which you are bound.

Licensing

Unless otherwise specified, all files included in this project are under GPL license v3, 
http://opensource.org/licenses/GPL-3.0.

Non-competition

Visual Dynamics Software Ltd. publish this open source project for the goodwill of public knowledge. 
Any Material you received under such goodwill should not be used to engage any activity in competition 
against business interest of Visual Dynamics Software Ltd. Visual Dynamics Software Ltd., in its sole discretion,
has the right to suspend or terminate your license if such activities are engaged using Material provided 
in this project. If you purchase a commercial licensed version of the library, this condition will be overruled 
by the purchase contract between you and Visual Dynamics Software Ltd.

Intellectual Property

All files included in this project, along with any Materials (including, for example, white papers, press releases,
data sheets, product descriptions and FAQs) is the copyrighted work of Visual Dynamics Software Ltd. and is protected 
under Canadian and worldwide copyright laws and treaty provisions. Visual Dynamics Software Ltd. grants you permission 
to copy such Materials so long as each copy (i) plainly displays all copyright and other proprietary notices, 
in the same form and manner as on the original and (ii) displays a statement that the Materials are used solely 
with permission of Visual Dynamics Software Ltd.

Any software which you download from this project is governed exclusively by the license terms accompanying the file 
or the terms of the license agreement which accompanied the original product licensed by you which you are updating, 
and by downloading such software you agree to abide by the terms of the license. Any reproduction or redistribution 
of such software not in accordance with the software license is expressly prohibited by law.

Except as expressly granted in this section (or to you specifically in writing), Visual Dynamics Software Ltd. 
and its suppliers do not grant any express or implied right to you under any patents, copyrights, trademarks, 
or trade secret information.

Trademarks

Trademarks of Visual Dynamics Software Ltd. may be used publicly only with permission from Visual Dynamics Software Ltd.
and proper acknowledgement. The name "jControl" is a registered trade mark of Visual Dynamics Software Ltd.

Contribution

Visual Dynamics Software Ltd. is granted copyright to any contribution made to this project unconditionally. 
This copyright is shared by Visual Dynamics Software Ltd. and contributors to this project.



